CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

We :heart: PRs! If you have something you'd like to contribute, please open an issue first. We're happy to talk with you about your pull request before you get started.

## Release Process

This section details the steps necessary to cut a new release. Suppose the latest release is `v3.18.1`, and you wish to cut `v.3.19.0`.

1. Checkout the default branch.

   ```bash
   $ git checkout master
   ```

2. Open up `CHANGELOG.md`. Create a new h2 with the release version and the date of the release. Move the release notes from the `HEAD` section under the new heading, and add a note in the `HEAD` section indicating that it is currently empty. 

   ```markdown
   # CHANGELOG

   ## HEAD (Unreleased)

   __(none)__

   ---

   ## 3.19.0 (2022-07-01)

   - feature: Add foobar support
   - bug: Fix XYZ

   ## 3.18.1 (2022-07-10)
   ...
   ```

3. Commit your changes to  `CHANGELOG.md`, and open a PR. Once your changes have been approved and status checks have passed, merge your PR into the default branch, `master`. 

4. Wait for status checks on the default branch to pass.

5. Navigate to the [Release page](https://github.com/pulumi/actions/releases) and select `Draft a new release`.

6. Make sure `Publish this Action to GitHub Marketplace` is checked (it should be checked by default).

7. Under the `Choose a tag` dropdown, enter in the name of your new tag, which should the release name, `v3.19.0`.

8. Under `Release Title`, enter the name of your release, v3.19.0

9. Press the button  `Geneate release notes`. Replace the section `What's New` with the changes you added to `CHANGELOG.md`.

10. Press the `Publish release` button.

Commit message:

Clarify one-feature-per-pr in CONTRIBUTING.md

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

We :heart: PRs! If you have something you'd like to contribute, please open an issue first. We're happy to talk with you about your pull request before you get started.

For larger features, we'd appreciate it if you open a [new issue](https://github.com/pulumi/actions/issues/new) before investing a lot of time so we can discuss the feature together.
Please also be sure to browse [current issues](https://github.com/pulumi/actions/issues) to make sure your issue is unique, to lighten the triage burden on our maintainers.
Finally, please limit your pull requests to contain only one feature at a time. Separating feature work into individual pull requests helps speed up code review and reduces the barrier to merge.

## Release Process

This section details the steps necessary to cut a new release. Suppose the latest release is `v3.18.1`, and you wish to cut `v.3.19.0`.

1. Checkout the default branch.

   ```bash
   $ git checkout master
   ```

2. Open up `CHANGELOG.md`. Create a new h2 with the release version and the date of the release. Move the release notes from the `HEAD` section under the new heading, and add a note in the `HEAD` section indicating that it is currently empty. 

   ```markdown
   # CHANGELOG

   ## HEAD (Unreleased)

   __(none)__

   ---

   ## 3.19.0 (2022-07-01)

   - feature: Add foobar support
   - bug: Fix XYZ

   ## 3.18.1 (2022-07-10)
   ...
   ```

3. Commit your changes to  `CHANGELOG.md`, and open a PR. Once your changes have been approved and status checks have passed, merge your PR into the default branch, `master`. 

4. Wait for status checks on the default branch to pass.

5. Navigate to the [Release page](https://github.com/pulumi/actions/releases) and select `Draft a new release`.

6. Make sure `Publish this Action to GitHub Marketplace` is checked (it should be checked by default).

7. Under the `Choose a tag` dropdown, enter in the name of your new tag, which should the release name, `v3.19.0`.

8. Under `Release Title`, enter the name of your release, v3.19.0

9. Press the button  `Geneate release notes`. Replace the section `What's New` with the changes you added to `CHANGELOG.md`.

10. Press the `Publish release` button.
