README.md, before:

# Pulumi GitHub Actions

Pulumi's GitHub Actions deploy apps and infrastructure to your cloud of choice,
using just your favorite language and GitHub. This includes previewing,
validating, and collaborating on proposed deployments in the context of Pull
Requests, and triggering deployments or promotions between different
environments by merging or directly committing code.

## Getting Started

```yaml
name: Pulumi
on:
  push:
    branches:
      - master
jobs:
  up:
    name: Preview
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: pulumi/actions@v5
        with:
          command: preview
          stack-name: org-name/stack-name
        env:
          PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN }}
```

This will check out the existing directory and run `pulumi preview`.

## Configuration

The action can be configured with the following arguments:

- `command` (optional) - The command to run as part of the action. Accepted
  values are `up` (alias: update), `refresh`, `destroy`, `preview` and `output`.
  If unspecified, the action will stop after installing Pulumi.

- `stack-name` (optional) - The name of the stack that Pulumi will be operating
  on. Use the fully quaified org-name/stack-name when operating on a stack
  outside of your individual account. This field is required if a `command` was
  specified.

- `work-dir` (optional) - The location of your Pulumi files. Defaults to `./`.

- `cloud-url` - (optional) - the Pulumi backend to login to. This would be the
  equivalent of what would be passed to the `pulumi login` command. The action
  will login to the appropriate backend on your behalf provided it is configured
  with the correct access credentials for that backend.

- `comment-on-pr` - (optional) If `true`, then the action will add the results
  of the Pulumi action to the PR. Ignored unless `${{ github.event }}` type is
  `pull_request`.

- `comment-on-summary` - (optional) If `true`, then the action will add the
  results of the Pulumi action to the GitHub step summary.

- `github-token` - (optional) A GitHub token that has access levels to allow the
  Action to comment on a PR. Defaults to `${{ github.token }}`

- `refresh` - (optional) If `true`, stack is refreshed before running the
  `command`.

- `secrets-provider` - (optional) The type of the provider that should be used
  to encrypt and decrypt secrets. Possible choices: `default`, `passphrase`,
  `awskms`, `azurekeyvault`, `gcpkms`, `hashivault`. e.g.
  `gcpkms://projects//locations/us-west1/keyRings/acmecorpsec/cryptoKeys/payroll`

- `color` - (optional) Colorize output. Choices are: always, never, raw, auto
  (default "auto").

### Extra options

- `config-map` - (optional) Configuration of the stack. Format Yaml string:
  `{<key | string>: {value: <value | string>, secret: <is_secret | boolean> },}`.

- `diff` - (optional) Display operation as a rich diff showing the overall
  change.

- `comment-on-pr-number` - (optional) If set to a number, then the action will
  add the results of the Pulumi action to the specified PR number.

- `edit-pr-comment` - (optional) Edit previous PR comment instead of posting new
  one. **PLEASE NOTE:** that as of 3.2.0 of the Action, this now defaults to
  `true`. This is in an effort to reduce verbosity - if you want to have a
  comment per PR run, please ensure that you set this to `false`.

- `expect-no-changes` - (optional) Return an error if any changes occur during
  this update.

- `message` - (optional) Optional message to associate with the update
  operation.

- `parallel` - (optional) Allow P resource operations to run in parallel at once
  (1 for no parallelism). Defaults to unbounded.

- `policyPacks` - (optional) Run one or more policy packs with the provided
  `command`. Multiple values can be specified one per line (example:
  `<value | string>,...`).

- `policyPackConfigs` - (optional) Path(s) to JSON file(s) containing the config
  for the policy pack with the corresponding "policy-pack" argument. Multiple
  values can be specified one per line (example: `<value | string>,...`).

- `pulumi-version` - (optional) Install a specific version of the Pulumi CLI.
  Defaults to "^3". Allows a "dev" argument to download the latest unreleased
  version.

- `remove` - (optional) Removes the target stack if all resources are destroyed.
  Used only with `destroy` command.

- `replace` - (optional) Specify resources to replace. Multiple resources can be
  specified one per line (example: `<value | string>,...`).

- `target` - (optional) Specify a single resource URN to update. Other resources
  will not be updated. Multiple resources can be specified one per line
  (example: `<value | string>,...`).

- `target-dependents` - (optional) Allows updating of dependent targets
  discovered but not specified in target.

- `upsert` - (optional) Allows the creation of the specified stack if it
  currently doesn't exist. **PLEASE NOTE:** This will create a
  `Pulumi.<stack-name>.yaml` file that you will need to add back to source
  control as part of the action if you wish to perform any further tasks with
  that stack.

- `exclude-protected` - (optional) Skip destroying protected resources. Only
  valid when `command` is `destroy`.

- `suppress-outputs` - (optional) Suppress display of stack outputs (in case
  they contain sensitive values).

- `suppress-progress` - (optional) Suppress display of periodic progress dots to
  limit logs length.

- `plan` - (optional) Used for
  [update plans](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/concepts/update-plans/)
  - On `preview`: Where to save the update plan. If you choose to use this in a
    different run of your workflow (let's say you create an update plan via a
    preview on Pull Request creation and want to `up` using the plan) you must
    upload the plan as an artifact, and retrieve it wherever you run `up`
  - On `up`: Where to read the update plan from.

By default, this action will try to authenticate Pulumi with
[Pulumi Cloud](https://app.pulumi.com/). If you have not specified a
`PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN` then you will need to specify an alternative backend via
the `cloud-url` argument.

### Installation Only

If you want to only install the Pulumi CLI, omit the `command` field of the
action.

```yaml
- uses: pulumi/actions@v5
```

This will install Pulumi and exit without performing any other operations.

### Stack Outputs

[Stack outputs](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/stack/#outputs) are
available when using this action. When creating a stack as follows:

```go
package main

import (
	random "github.com/pulumi/pulumi-random/sdk/v2/go/random"
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v2/go/pulumi"
)

func main() {
	pulumi.Run(func(ctx *pulumi.Context) error {
		p, err := random.NewRandomPet(ctx, "my-user-name", &random.RandomPetArgs{})
		if err != nil {
			return err
		}
		ctx.Export("pet-name", p)
		return nil
	})
}
```

We can see that `pet-name` is an output. To get the value of this output in the
action, we would use code similar to the following:

```yaml
- uses: pulumi/actions@v5
  id: pulumi
  env:
    PULUMI_CONFIG_PASSPHRASE: ${{ secrets.PULUMI_CONFIG_PASSPHRASE }}
  with:
    command: up
    cloud-url: gs://my-bucket
    stack-name: org-name/stack-name
- run: echo "My pet name is ${{ steps.pulumi.outputs.pet-name }}"
```

the `pet-name` is available as a named output

```
Run echo "My pet name is pretty-finch"
```

### Referencing Sensitive Values

We suggest that any sensitive environment variables be referenced using
[GitHub Secrets](https://developer.github.com/actions/creating-workflows/storing-secrets/),
and consuming them using
[the `secrets` attribute](https://developer.github.com/actions/creating-workflows/workflow-configuration-options/#actions-attributes)
on your workflow's action.

## Example workflows

The Pulumi GitHub action uses the Pulumi
[Automation API](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/automation-api/) in order to
coordinate the Pulumi operations. This means that there is no supporting
functionality for npm or pip installs. This functionality should be deferred to
the correct GitHub Marketplace actions that support it.

- [NodeJS Runtime + Pulumi Managed Backend](examples/nodejs-pulumi.yaml)
- [Python Runtime + Pulumi Managed Backend](examples/python-pulumi.yaml)
- [Go Runtime + Pulumi Managed Backend](examples/go-pulumi.yaml)
- [DotNet Runtime + Pulumi Managed Backend](examples/dotnet-pulumi.yaml)
- [NodeJS Runtime + AWS S3 Self Managed Backend](examples/nodejs-aws.yaml)
- [NodeJS Runtime + Google GCS Self Managed Backend](examples/nodejs-google.yaml)
- [NodeJS Runtime + Azure Blob Self Managed Backend](examples/nodejs-azure.yaml)
- [NodeJS Runtime + Local File System Self Managed Backend](examples/nodejs-local.yaml)

## Release Cadence

As of `v3.18`, we are intending to move to a monthly cadence for minor releases.
Minor releases will be published around the beginning of the month. We may cut a
patch release instead, if the changes are small enough not to warrant a minor
release. We will also cut patch releases periodically as needed to address bugs.

## Migrating from v4

v5 of the Pulumi Action updates the NodeJS runtime from Node 16 to Node 20.
Users of GitHub Enterprise will have to upgrade to v3.6 or newer. All other
users are unaffected.

## Migrating from v3

v4 of the Pulumi Action updates the NodeJS runtime from Node 12 to Node 16.
Users of GitHub Enterprise will have to upgrade to v3.4 or newer. All other
users are unaffected.

## Migrating from GitHub Action v1 and v2

Here are some pointers when migrating from v1 to v2 of our GitHub Action.

- The following inputs have changed from environment variables to action inputs:

  - `PULUMI_ROOT` is now `work-dir`
  - `PULUMI_BACKEND_URL` is now `cloud-url`
  - `COMMENT_ON_PR` is now `comment-on-pr`
  - `GITHUB_TOKEN` is now `github-token`

- `IS_PR_WORKFLOW` is no longer a viable input. The action is able to understand
  if the workflow is a pull_request due to action type

- The action now runs natively, so the action workflow needs to have the correct
  environment configured. There are
  [sample workflows available](https://github.com/pulumi/actions/tree/master/.github/workflows).
  For examples, if you are running a NodeJS (for example) app then you need to
  ensure that your action has NodeJS available to it:

```yaml
- uses: actions/setup-node@v1
with:
  node-version: 14.x
```

- The action will no longer run
  `npm ci | npm install | pip3 install | pipenv install`. Please ensure that you
  are installing your dependencies before Pulumi commands are executed, e.g.:

```
- run: pip install -r requirements
  working-directory: infra
```

Commit message:

Allow OIDC authentication from github actions

README.md, after:

# Pulumi GitHub Actions

Pulumi's GitHub Actions deploy apps and infrastructure to your cloud of choice,
using just your favorite language and GitHub. This includes previewing,
validating, and collaborating on proposed deployments in the context of Pull
Requests, and triggering deployments or promotions between different
environments by merging or directly committing code.

## Getting Started

```yaml
name: Pulumi
on:
  push:
    branches:
      - master
jobs:
  up:
    name: Preview
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: pulumi/actions@v5
        with:
          command: preview
          stack-name: org-name/stack-name
        env:
          PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN }}
```

This will check out the existing directory and run `pulumi preview`.

## Configuration

The action can be configured with the following arguments:

- `command` (optional) - The command to run as part of the action. Accepted
  values are `up` (alias: update), `refresh`, `destroy`, `preview` and `output`.
  If unspecified, the action will stop after installing Pulumi.

- `stack-name` (optional) - The name of the stack that Pulumi will be operating
  on. Use the fully quaified org-name/stack-name when operating on a stack
  outside of your individual account. This field is required if a `command` was
  specified.

- `work-dir` (optional) - The location of your Pulumi files. Defaults to `./`.

- `cloud-url` - (optional) - the Pulumi backend to login to. This would be the
  equivalent of what would be passed to the `pulumi login` command. The action
  will login to the appropriate backend on your behalf provided it is configured
  with the correct access credentials for that backend.

- `comment-on-pr` - (optional) If `true`, then the action will add the results
  of the Pulumi action to the PR. Ignored unless `${{ github.event }}` type is
  `pull_request`.

- `comment-on-summary` - (optional) If `true`, then the action will add the
  results of the Pulumi action to the GitHub step summary.

- `github-token` - (optional) A GitHub token that has access levels to allow the
  Action to comment on a PR. Defaults to `${{ github.token }}`

- `refresh` - (optional) If `true`, stack is refreshed before running the
  `command`.

- `secrets-provider` - (optional) The type of the provider that should be used
  to encrypt and decrypt secrets. Possible choices: `default`, `passphrase`,
  `awskms`, `azurekeyvault`, `gcpkms`, `hashivault`. e.g.
  `gcpkms://projects//locations/us-west1/keyRings/acmecorpsec/cryptoKeys/payroll`

- `color` - (optional) Colorize output. Choices are: always, never, raw, auto
  (default "auto").

### Using OpenID Connect authentication

For more information regarding the OpenID Connect integration, refer to the
[Pulumi Documentation](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/pulumi-cloud/oidc/client/).

- `oidc-pulumi-organization`: The name of the organization it will request a
  token for.

- `oidc-equested-token-type`: Defines the type of token to request:

  - Org token: `urn:pulumi:token-type:access_token:organization`
  - Team token: `urn:pulumi:token-type:access_token:team` (scope
    `team:{TEAM_NAME}` is required)
  - Personal token: `urn:pulumi:token-type:access_token:personal` (scope
    `user:{USER_LOGIN}` is required)

- `oidc-scope`: When requesting a personal or team token, the
  [proper scope](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/pulumi-cloud/oidc/client/) should
  be defined.

- `oidc-token-expiration`: (optional, time in seconds) used to customize the
  token expiration required by the operation. The default token expiration (2
  hours) will be used.

### Extra options

- `config-map` - (optional) Configuration of the stack. Format Yaml string:
  `{<key | string>: {value: <value | string>, secret: <is_secret | boolean> },}`.

- `diff` - (optional) Display operation as a rich diff showing the overall
  change.

- `comment-on-pr-number` - (optional) If set to a number, then the action will
  add the results of the Pulumi action to the specified PR number.

- `edit-pr-comment` - (optional) Edit previous PR comment instead of posting new
  one. **PLEASE NOTE:** that as of 3.2.0 of the Action, this now defaults to
  `true`. This is in an effort to reduce verbosity - if you want to have a
  comment per PR run, please ensure that you set this to `false`.

- `expect-no-changes` - (optional) Return an error if any changes occur during
  this update.

- `message` - (optional) Optional message to associate with the update
  operation.

- `parallel` - (optional) Allow P resource operations to run in parallel at once
  (1 for no parallelism). Defaults to unbounded.

- `policyPacks` - (optional) Run one or more policy packs with the provided
  `command`. Multiple values can be specified one per line (example:
  `<value | string>,...`).

- `policyPackConfigs` - (optional) Path(s) to JSON file(s) containing the config
  for the policy pack with the corresponding "policy-pack" argument. Multiple
  values can be specified one per line (example: `<value | string>,...`).

- `pulumi-version` - (optional) Install a specific version of the Pulumi CLI.
  Defaults to "^3". Allows a "dev" argument to download the latest unreleased
  version.

- `remove` - (optional) Removes the target stack if all resources are destroyed.
  Used only with `destroy` command.

- `replace` - (optional) Specify resources to replace. Multiple resources can be
  specified one per line (example: `<value | string>,...`).

- `target` - (optional) Specify a single resource URN to update. Other resources
  will not be updated. Multiple resources can be specified one per line
  (example: `<value | string>,...`).

- `target-dependents` - (optional) Allows updating of dependent targets
  discovered but not specified in target.

- `upsert` - (optional) Allows the creation of the specified stack if it
  currently doesn't exist. **PLEASE NOTE:** This will create a
  `Pulumi.<stack-name>.yaml` file that you will need to add back to source
  control as part of the action if you wish to perform any further tasks with
  that stack.

- `exclude-protected` - (optional) Skip destroying protected resources. Only
  valid when `command` is `destroy`.

- `suppress-outputs` - (optional) Suppress display of stack outputs (in case
  they contain sensitive values).

- `suppress-progress` - (optional) Suppress display of periodic progress dots to
  limit logs length.

- `plan` - (optional) Used for
  [update plans](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/concepts/update-plans/)
  - On `preview`: Where to save the update plan. If you choose to use this in a
    different run of your workflow (let's say you create an update plan via a
    preview on Pull Request creation and want to `up` using the plan) you must
    upload the plan as an artifact, and retrieve it wherever you run `up`
  - On `up`: Where to read the update plan from.

By default, this action will try to authenticate Pulumi with
[Pulumi Cloud](https://app.pulumi.com/). If you have not specified a
`PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN` then you will need to specify an alternative backend via
the `cloud-url` argument.

### Installation Only

If you want to only install the Pulumi CLI, omit the `command` field of the
action.

```yaml
- uses: pulumi/actions@v5
```

This will install Pulumi and exit without performing any other operations.

### Stack Outputs

[Stack outputs](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/stack/#outputs) are
available when using this action. When creating a stack as follows:

```go
package main

import (
	random "github.com/pulumi/pulumi-random/sdk/v2/go/random"
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v2/go/pulumi"
)

func main() {
	pulumi.Run(func(ctx *pulumi.Context) error {
		p, err := random.NewRandomPet(ctx, "my-user-name", &random.RandomPetArgs{})
		if err != nil {
			return err
		}
		ctx.Export("pet-name", p)
		return nil
	})
}
```

We can see that `pet-name` is an output. To get the value of this output in the
action, we would use code similar to the following:

```yaml
- uses: pulumi/actions@v5
  id: pulumi
  env:
    PULUMI_CONFIG_PASSPHRASE: ${{ secrets.PULUMI_CONFIG_PASSPHRASE }}
  with:
    command: up
    cloud-url: gs://my-bucket
    stack-name: org-name/stack-name
- run: echo "My pet name is ${{ steps.pulumi.outputs.pet-name }}"
```

the `pet-name` is available as a named output

```
Run echo "My pet name is pretty-finch"
```

### Referencing Sensitive Values

We suggest that any sensitive environment variables be referenced using
[GitHub Secrets](https://developer.github.com/actions/creating-workflows/storing-secrets/),
and consuming them using
[the `secrets` attribute](https://developer.github.com/actions/creating-workflows/workflow-configuration-options/#actions-attributes)
on your workflow's action.

## Example workflows

The Pulumi GitHub action uses the Pulumi
[Automation API](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/automation-api/) in order to
coordinate the Pulumi operations. This means that there is no supporting
functionality for npm or pip installs. This functionality should be deferred to
the correct GitHub Marketplace actions that support it.

- [NodeJS Runtime + Pulumi Managed Backend](examples/nodejs-pulumi.yaml)
- [Python Runtime + Pulumi Managed Backend](examples/python-pulumi.yaml)
- [Go Runtime + Pulumi Managed Backend](examples/go-pulumi.yaml)
- [DotNet Runtime + Pulumi Managed Backend](examples/dotnet-pulumi.yaml)
- [NodeJS Runtime + AWS S3 Self Managed Backend](examples/nodejs-aws.yaml)
- [NodeJS Runtime + Google GCS Self Managed Backend](examples/nodejs-google.yaml)
- [NodeJS Runtime + Azure Blob Self Managed Backend](examples/nodejs-azure.yaml)
- [NodeJS Runtime + Local File System Self Managed Backend](examples/nodejs-local.yaml)

## Release Cadence

As of `v3.18`, we are intending to move to a monthly cadence for minor releases.
Minor releases will be published around the beginning of the month. We may cut a
patch release instead, if the changes are small enough not to warrant a minor
release. We will also cut patch releases periodically as needed to address bugs.

## Migrating from v4

v5 of the Pulumi Action updates the NodeJS runtime from Node 16 to Node 20.
Users of GitHub Enterprise will have to upgrade to v3.6 or newer. All other
users are unaffected.

## Migrating from v3

v4 of the Pulumi Action updates the NodeJS runtime from Node 12 to Node 16.
Users of GitHub Enterprise will have to upgrade to v3.4 or newer. All other
users are unaffected.

## Migrating from GitHub Action v1 and v2

Here are some pointers when migrating from v1 to v2 of our GitHub Action.

- The following inputs have changed from environment variables to action inputs:

  - `PULUMI_ROOT` is now `work-dir`
  - `PULUMI_BACKEND_URL` is now `cloud-url`
  - `COMMENT_ON_PR` is now `comment-on-pr`
  - `GITHUB_TOKEN` is now `github-token`

- `IS_PR_WORKFLOW` is no longer a viable input. The action is able to understand
  if the workflow is a pull_request due to action type

- The action now runs natively, so the action workflow needs to have the correct
  environment configured. There are
  [sample workflows available](https://github.com/pulumi/actions/tree/master/.github/workflows).
  For examples, if you are running a NodeJS (for example) app then you need to
  ensure that your action has NodeJS available to it:

```yaml
- uses: actions/setup-node@v1
with:
  node-version: 14.x
```

- The action will no longer run
  `npm ci | npm install | pip3 install | pipenv install`. Please ensure that you
  are installing your dependencies before Pulumi commands are executed, e.g.:

```
- run: pip install -r requirements
  working-directory: infra
```
